>> Scott: The second thing is, and
we're gonna get to in a minute,
is nested resolvers.
And nested resolvers
are basically like this.
So let's say I want to,
let's go back to our user here,
let's say I want to resolve friends.
I wanna get a list of friends for my user,
and they're all just gonna be strange,
let's keep it simple for now.
And it's a nominal array.
Do I have friends anywhere on here?
Sure, I could just add friends.
I can just add it right here, right?
I can just put in friends and
it would totally work.
But we're gonna use a nested
resolver here to resolve this,
assuming friends come from
the database somewhere.
If we were to resolve friends here,
we would be very wasteful.
That's because we only want to send
back the friends when someone asks for
the friends, right?
And if we were to resolve
the friends inside of this resolver,
we would never know if you asked for
the friends,
unless we looked at this AST which I
said that you should never look at.
So we could rely on GraphQL to determine
if someone asked for a friend.
And we can do that by
setting up a nested resolver.
So a nested resolver's only gonna run
when someone asks for that field, right?
So if you didn't ask for
the friends field,
this function that we're about to write
won't even execute, so it's not wasteful.
But if we'd executed it up here,
it's gonna run every single time,
even though you didn't ask for it.
So if we come down here if we want to
write a nested resolver, we want to write,
we want to tell GraphQL how to resolve
the friends field on the user type.
So just like we tell GraphQL how to
resolve the getMe field on the Query type,
we would do the same thing.
So for the User type we're gonna tell
GraphQL how to resolve the friends field.
>> Scott: Does that make sense?
So knowing that,
all you gotta do is write a function and
the syntax is exactly the same as this,
rootValue, arg, context, info.
Now remember when I said nested
resolver that rootValue's actually
gonna be something?
In this case it is.
It's gonna be the branch
from which it branched from.
So where did this friends branch from?
What is the type above it?
>> Speaker 2: User.
>> Scott: Exactly.
So this first argument is user.
It's the user that these
friends belong to.
That's the root value.
The second argument is the same args that
may have or may have not been passing.
In this case, there are no args, but guess
what, you can pass in args to fields.
It's pretty crazy,
you can totally do that.
There's nothing stopping you from saying,
this friends also takes in sorting.
I want to sort these friends.
You can totally do that, and
those args will be right here.
>> Scott: But we're not gonna do that.
So you'll have args here.
We don't need args.
And then now that we have that user,
you would say, okay, cool.
Query the DB for friends of
this user.
>> Scott: Right?
But we're just gonna return
back an array of strings.
>> Scott: Cool, so
that should satisfy our schema
which is just an array of strings.
We're just returning an array of strings,
right?
So now let's actually execute this.
And you refresh the graphical, so
we can make sure that that worked.
So if we look at Query, we click at User,
we see friends there now,
which is an array of strings.
And now if I say, I wanna getMe.
>> Scott: So
getMe, I wanna get the ID,
I wanna also get friends.
And if I hit that, you can see,
I get back my array of friends.
Now, I'm just gonna show
you how this works.
I'm gonna put a log in here.
This is a very important part.
>> Scott: We'll put a log in here for
in friends, and then when I run
this query with the asking for
friends, you can see that the log
definitely runs, it's in friends, okay?
Now I'm gonna clear the log.
I'm gonna get rid of friends.
I'm gonna run this query again.
You see it doesn't log in friends.
It doesn't even go to that function.
That's the important part.
That's what's so
beautiful about this, I think.
That way you're not wasteful.
It only goes to the thing when you ask for
it.
That's why you wanna put things
in nested resolvers, and
you don't want to treat your
resolvers like controllers.
I'm gonna put everything
in this one controller.
I wanna grab the whole
thing at the database.
I'm gonna give it to GraphQL, and let them
figure out what properties they need.
That's extremely wasteful.
You definitely wanna use the nested
resolvers to let the user decide
when you should be creating and
when you shouldn't.
It's way more flexible.
You can create a more flexible
graph using that approach.
So once you have those resolvers you just
export them however you want and then,
I'm sorry you actually have
to export them like this.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Speaker 2: Okay, I'm almost done.
I was like dang, that's a bad
way to queue him off the stage.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Scott: All right, I'm wrapping up.
So you export those resolvers, and then
you can see right here in the index here,
I'm sorry, where was that, resolvers.
>> Scott: We
export those resolvers into here, right?
We have user resolvers, and then now
here we're just merging them together.
So merge is gonna merge them all together.
So eventually we're gonna have objects
that looks like this with a Query
property.
It's gonna have every single query that
we ever made for every single query.
And then we'll have
a mutation when we get to mutations.
>> Scott: And
it's gonna have all of our
mutations that we make.
And then all the other ones after
that are gonna be nested ones.
So here's the ones for user.
Here's the one for song.
Those are all gonna be the nested ones.
So that's what this merge is going,
it's putting them all together.
But eventually it's gonna create that for
us.